
Document:System Requirement Specification Document

Title:System Reqruiement Spefication for Online Shopping Portal

Team:
	Direct Customer, Indirect Customer,Architect, Business Analyst
	Quality Assurance Team,
	System Analyst

Objective (Purpose):
	The online shopping System for products Web Applictaion is intended to  provide complete solution for vendors, Consumers as well as internal users (Staff)  through  a single Gateway using 
	internet. It will enable vendors to setp up online shops, customers to browse through virtual shop
	and purchase products online without visiting the shop physically.

Scope:
	This System allows Shoppers to maintain thier products for adding or removing from catalog based on
	their availablity.Customer will be able to  review orders history and may able to cancel order within
	24 hours , order place.
	The System  will be able to show live Bussiness Operation statistics trends through Customized dashboard
	for stakeholders.

Definitions:
	OSS: Online Shopping System
	QA:  Quality Assurance
	Portal: Peronalized Online Web Application
	MIS: Management Information System
	CRM: Customer Relation Managment
	BI:  Business Intelligence
	Dashboard: Personalized information presented using  BI techniques such grid, score card, graph

Requirements:

Functional Requirements:

	Any annonymous User will be able to view different products avaialble for sale. Any User will be able select product to view
	from categories avaialble. Registered shoppers will be able promote thier product for sale by adding  products to the product
	catalog maintained by System.Staff will be able to approve or reject request for adding or removing products from product
	catalog by shoppers. Staff will be to track and maintain stock of products available for sale. Staff will be able to raise
	reqests for product updatation from product inventory.
	
	Shopper will be able request to add new product to product catalog maintained by system.  Sales Team will be able to approve or 
	reject request  raised by shopper for adding or removing products from product catalog.
	Shopper will be able to update  product details which have been already added to product catalog. 
	Shoppers, sales team will be informed well in advaned about low stock  or out of stock of products in product catalog.
	Product listing will be provided based their category, sale, quantity, likes, recommendations.
 
         Consumer will be able to  add or remove products from shopping cart. System will maintain shopping cart for each consumer to 
	 maintain list of items selected by him/her. Consumer will be able view all items from shopping cart. Shopping Cart will present
	 product details, number of items of product selected by consumer with price and total. Consumer will be able procees for Order placement.
		  
         Registered Customer will be able place an order with the help of Shopping cart maintained by system. Registered Customer will be 
	 able to cancel placed order within 24 hours. Registered customer get orders history. Registered customer can get details of order
	 from orderes been placed. 
		
	 Sales team will be able get details of orders of a particular Customer. Sales team  will be able to cancel , reject or approve 
	 orders been placed by consumer due to some policies of Business.
	 BOD will be able to summary of orders been placed , rejected from Oroder PRocessing of System. BOD will get Business insight by 
	 observing  daily operations  with the of getting orders information.
		
   	 Consumer will be provided options for payment such as through internet banking  or  UPI  or Online payment option.
 	 Consumer will asked to submit their payment related information.Consumer will be redirected to payment gateway for secure payment
	 transaction.On successful payment processing using payment gateway system will notify consumer about transaction and order placement
	 status.

         Customer will be able track order status. Customer will be able track deliver using unique dispatcher id presented.
	 Customer will be able accept or return delivery based on quality received.
	 Delivery person will be able get delivery details sothat he / she can deliver product to customer end.
	 Delivery person will be able to change the status of product delivered.
	 Delivery vendor will be ablt to  list all product delivery to be done by their staff.
	 Sales team will be able to monitor shipment  done by their vendors.
	 Sales team will be able to track product delivery for particular customer.
	
         Customer will able to submit feedback about product they recived. Customer will able to  get details about product orders placed.
	 Customer will be cancel his placed order within 24 hours. Customer will be able to update his/ her personal information. 
	 Customer  will be to manage his profile maintained by system. Customer will be able change his credentails if required. 
	 Customer will be notified about order status, delivery status through  SMS, Email communication.
	 Customer will get complete information about his orders, likes, comments, details through a dashboard.
	 Customer will be able to update his payment related information.

	 System will present dashboard for Customers, Vendors, Suppliers as well as BOD.




Dashboard will provide information using graph, score cards, key perfomance indicators as well Grid data prestation.
 BOD will be informed about bussiness operations through reports.
	 Sales team will be able to monitor daily online shopping business activities using thier personalized dashboard.
	 Customer will be able get thier purchase realted infomation using Customer Dashboard.
	 Shopper will be able track thier product sale being done through online shopping portal/
	 System and Technical team ( IT Opertaions team) will be able monitor system operations by monitoring logs maintained.
               
	

NonFunctional Requirement:

Security
Registered Customer will be allowed to place an order.	
Each stakeholder will be to access system  through authentication process. 
System will provide access to  the content , operations using Role based security (Authorization) (Permissions based on Role)
Using SSL in all transactions  which will be performed stakeholder. 
It would protect confidential information shared by system to 
		stake holder of Shared by stakeholder to system.
System will automatically log of  all stakeholder after some time due to inactiveness.
System will block operations for inactive  stakeholder and would redirect for authentication.
System  will internally maintain secure communiction channel between Servers ( Web Servers, App Servers, databse Server)
		Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communcation.
		User proper firewall to protect servers from out side fishing, velnerable attacks.


Reliability
The system will backup business data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational Continous updates are matained, continous Adminstration is done to keep system operational.
During peak hours system will maintain same user experaince by managing load balacning .

Availability
	uptime:   24* 7  available
		 99.999%

Maintainability:
		A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
		A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online shopping portal (Web Site) to management server capabilities.
		IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Adminstrative tools provided by Servers.
		Separate enviornment will be maintained for system for isolation in  production, testing, and development.

Portablility:
 PDA: Portable Device Application
 System will provide portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through  users will be able to access online shopping portal.
 System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP)

Accessibility:
only registered customer will be able to place an order after authentication.
Sales team can reject or approve  orders, shopper requests  based on role  provided.
BOD team will be able to view daily, weekly, monthly, annual businss Growth throgh customized dashboard.
Shoppers will be able to see their product sale graph

Durability:
System will retain customer  shopping cart for 15 minutes  even though customer loose internet connection and join again.
System will maintain wishlist for customer . customer  will be able to add products from wishlist  and add to shopping cart whenever needed.
System will implement backup and recovery for retaining stake holders data, bussiness operation data and business data over time.

Efficiency:
on Festival season, maximum number of users  will place order, view products  with same response time.
System will be able to manage all transactions with isolation.
Modularity:
System will designed and developed using reusable, independent or dependent business senarios in the form of modules.
These modules will be loosely coupled and highly cohesive.
System will contain CRM , Inventory , shopping cart, order processing, payment processing, Delivery module, membership and Roles managment modules.
	
Scalability:
System will be able  to  provide  consistent user exeprience to stake holder as well as vistors irrespective of load.

Safety:
Online shopping portal will be secure from malicious attack, fishing.
Online shoppping portal functionalilites are protected from outside with prper firewall configuration.
Online shopping portal will be always kept updated with latest anit virus software.
Bussiness data will be backed up periodically to ensure safty of data using increamental back up strategy.
Role based security will be applied for Application data and operations accessibility. 	
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to provide a concise overview of the requirements for an Online Ticket Booking System. It outlines the features, functionalities, and constraints of the system to ensure successful implementation.

1.2 Scope
The Online Ticket Booking System aims to provide users with a convenient and user-friendly platform to book tickets for various events, such as movies, concerts, sports events, and more. The system will enable users to browse available events, select seats or tickets, make payments, and receive booking confirmations.

1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
N/A

Overall Description
2.1 Product Perspective
The Online Ticket Booking System will be a standalone web-based application that interacts with users via a user interface. It will integrate with payment gateways for secure online transactions.

2.2 User Classes and Characteristics

General Users: These are individuals who visit the platform to search for events and book tickets.
System Administrators: They manage the system, handle event updates, and user management.
2.3 Operating Environment
The system will be developed as a web application accessible through modern web browsers on various devices, including desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile phones.

Functional Requirements
3.1 User Registration and Authentication

Users should be able to create new accounts and authenticate themselves to access the system.
User authentication should include password security measures.
3.2 Event Management

Administrators should be able to add, edit, and delete events.
Events should have details such as title, description, date, time, venue, and available seats/tickets.
3.3 Ticket Booking

Users should be able to browse available events.
Users should be able to select seats or tickets for events.
Users should be able to add multiple tickets to their cart.
Users should be able to proceed to checkout and make payments securely.
Users should receive booking confirmation with a unique reference number.
3.4 User Profile Management

Users should be able to view and update their profile information.
Users should be able to view their booking history.
Non-functional Requirements
4.1 Performance

The system should handle a large number of concurrent users without significant performance degradation.
Response times for critical operations should be within acceptable limits.
4.2 Security

The system should implement appropriate security measures to protect user data and prevent unauthorized access.
Secure encryption and authentication mechanisms should be employed for online transactions.
4.3 Usability

The user interface should be intuitive, user-friendly, and accessible across different devices.
Error messages and notifications should be clear and informative.
Constraints

The system should be developed using a specific technology stack (e.g., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and a backend framework).
The system should comply with relevant legal and regulatory requirements for online transactions and user data privacy.
References
N/A

Note: This is a concise sample SRS document for an Online Ticket Booking System. It provides an overview of the key requirements, but for a complete and comprehensive SRS, additional sections such as System Architecture, Use Cases, Data Models, and Testing Requirements may be necessary.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Title: Employee Management System - Software Requirements Specification (SRS)

Introduction
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to provide a concise overview of the requirements for an Employee Management System. It outlines the features, functionalities, and constraints of the system to ensure successful implementation.

1.2 Scope
The Employee Management System aims to streamline and automate employee-related processes within an organization. It includes features such as employee records management, attendance tracking, leave management, performance evaluations, and payroll management.

1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
N/A

Overall Description
2.1 Product Perspective
The Employee Management System will be a standalone web-based application that interacts with users via a user interface. It will integrate with relevant databases and external systems to gather and store employee data.

2.2 User Classes and Characteristics

System Administrators: They manage the system, configure settings, and oversee employee-related processes.
HR Managers: They handle employee records, leave management, performance evaluations, and generate reports.
Employees: They access the system to view personal information, apply for leave, and update relevant details.
2.3 Operating Environment
The system will be developed as a web application accessible through modern web browsers on various devices, including desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile phones.

Functional Requirements
3.1 Employee Records Management

The system should store and manage employee information, including personal details, contact information, employment history, and qualifications.
Administrators and HR Managers should be able to add, edit, and delete employee records.
3.2 Attendance Tracking

The system should provide a mechanism for tracking employee attendance, including clock-in and clock-out times.
The system should support different methods of capturing attendance data (e.g., biometric devices, login timestamps).
3.3 Leave Management

Employees should be able to submit leave requests through the system.
HR Managers should be able to review and approve/deny leave requests.
The system should maintain leave balances for employees and update them based on approved leave requests.
3.4 Performance Evaluations

The system should facilitate the process of conducting employee performance evaluations.
HR Managers should be able to create evaluation forms, assign them to employees, and collect feedback.
The system should generate performance reports based on evaluation results.
3.5 Payroll Management

The system should calculate employee salaries based on predefined salary structures and attendance data.
The system should handle deductions, bonuses, and other payroll-related components.
The system should generate payroll reports and support direct deposit or payment generation.
Non-functional Requirements
4.1 Performance

The system should handle a large number of employee records and concurrent users without significant performance degradation.
Response times for critical operations, such as attendance tracking and payroll calculations, should be within acceptable limits.
4.2 Security

The system should implement appropriate security measures to protect employee data and prevent unauthorized access.
User authentication and access control mechanisms should be in place to ensure data privacy.
4.3 Usability

The user interface should be intuitive, user-friendly, and accessible across different devices.
Error messages and notifications should be clear and informative.
Constraints

The system should be developed using a specific technology stack (e.g., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and a backend framework).
The system should comply with relevant legal and regulatory requirements for employee data privacy and payroll management.
References
N/A

Note:
